nsjdcksdjknnnnnnLinux Practice Questions
----------------------------

1. Set the hostanme of your machine to "mytestserver". This hostname should be persistent i.e., it should not change on reboot.

2. Add 3 users- harry, tom, jerry. Add one addtional group called auditor. Make sure the user harry and jerry are a part of this auditior group. Also the user tom must have a non-interactive shell(/bin/nologin).


3. Create a folder under /home named as admins. Its respective group needs to be admins (if group is not there, then create it first.)
The group users can read and write while other users are not allowed to do anything. 

4. Configure a task to run the below command everyday at 14:25.
echo "Hello there! How are you doing?"

5. Create a file /etc/text with the below text.
"
This is a new file with a text
The text is written for testing purpose.
The task is to search for keyword abcde &
write it down in another file
"
Find the row that contain abcde from file /etc/text, and write it down in another file called /tmp/testfile   



6. Create a user alex and the user id should be 1234, and the password should be alex1234.
Also make sure if you are able to login with this user. (you might need to allow passwordLogin in sshd_config file)

7. Configure a http server which can be accessed from the browser on port 8080. 
You might need to open the port in SG if not already done.

8. Attach a volume of size 5GB to your ec2 instance and mount it to the path /mnt/newvol. The filesystem must be ext4.
Increase the size of the volume to 8GB from aws console and then make the increased space available in the server.

 
9. Add a group called developers and provide it a GID=4321

10. Change the date and time of your system to 10AM in IST.

11. Create a user called john and set his password to expire in next 25days. Also set the account to get expire in 30 days from creation date.

Theory Questions:
-------------------------

1. What is Linux, Is it legal to edit linux kernel?
2. What is a swap space?
3. How will you check the memory usage of the system? Provide all the known commands.
4. What are the types of file permissions available in Linux and what command can you use to change the permissions?
5. What are inode and process id?
6. Name the most command commands that you use in your day to day task. Also explain their usage in your activities.
7. What are the different modes in vi editor?
8. Explain the redirection operator in Linux  (>, >>)
9. What command will you use to archive a directory?
10. Provide a syntax to copy a file from source to destination path.
11. How can terminate a running process?
12. Give a command to rename a file called "oldfile" to "newfile".
13. What command will you use to see the mount points in a system.
14. How to create a text file without opening it.
15. How would you delete a directory which contains some files.
16. You tried to delete a file but got the error. What could be the possible reason? Provide atleast two reasons.
17. How to check the current set path variable?
18. Explain the Linux system boot process.
19. Which command will you use to see the running processes and the used ports.
20. Explain the output of free command.
21. How will you check the load and CPU performance?
22. What are the differences between softlink and Hardlink and how will you create them?
23. Provide the command to get date in 
		DD-MM-YYYY format
		only month
		only the hour

24. How will you force a user to change his password on the first login.

